Is it on?
OK.
I guess it is OK let me share my screen.
Here.
OK.
Do you already spring break?
I finally have time to create all your
homeworks and read through all your
proposals.
So then let's let's just talk about the
homework and surveys or stuff, right?
So then.
So then, here's the slides.
I'm gonna touch base on that.
So right now, right?
So we have seven groups,
group number 123456 and #10.
So then account of students in each group.
So screw 4 and 10.
Those two group have four students and
group 2:00 and 6:00 they have two
students.
So then on average,
we have three students in each group.
The good news is we do not have a single
team of one, which is awesome.
For the homework, as you can see.
I think the homework is pretty easy for
you guys.
Homework. One average of 5.6 out of 6.
So relative score is a 93.
25 and homework two.
I think that homework just too easy.
So everyone got a perfect score.
Six out of six and a relative score is
100.
Homework 3. The average of 5.45 out of 6,
so relative score is 90.87.
The proposal is a teamwork right?
So then I have.
19 out of 20 is a relative score 95.
The proposal is the mid term score that
you're going to find.
From Marquette University system I just
remember someone sent me a reminder,
asked me to midterm scores.
So then the proposal score gonna be that
one and.
Pretty much.
Majority of the folks got A and then
several folks got a minus and and that's
it.
And then there's no B.
There's no C.
There's no D in there,
so no F which is good.
So then that's pretty much what we have
done in the first half of the class.
Class, right?
So then I I will say congratulations.
You guys did a great job.
Homework isn't super hard.
And then you guys handle it.
But I also received some reminder from
Marquette University.
You guys know this is a combination of?
Two classes, right?
At least this is what I was told.
One is undergrad class,
another one is it's graduate level class.
I remember to start with some #5.
So market University,
remind me that I need to give something
challenging to grad students.
So then to differentiate this class
between a grad grad class and undergrad
class.
So now I will have to change the homework
a little bit more.
It's, you know,
specifically for the grad students.
Oh please ignore the date.
It's it's definitely not 2023.
I don't wanna go back to 2023 and this is
definitely not November.
So for the grad students,
you have one additional homework.
And you have one short.
Code Oncode final exam.
That'll be something two additional.
Assignments for you guys.
OK.
I right now I also need to clarify the
definition of grad students.
Because let me show you guys what I mean.
This is ad 2L.
Into D2L.
We know that this course is FNA 4931 and
five 931.
Topics topics in finance, right?
So then my I don't know my the definition
of grad students who are the students who
registered 5931. If that's the definition.
So then my definition of grad student who
gonna have additional homework additional
final exam?
Gonna apply to those guys,
but if the definition by Marc and
University is truly who are the find?
Who are the grad students?
Which will be a subset of the students
register for this 5931.
So then this this requirement will only
apply to those guys.
So then it's really depend on how.
Marquette University is defined in grad
students and how they're gonna
differentiate those two classes.
My current guess is.
Whoever registered for this 5931.
So then those students will have one
additional homework that will be for that
individual,
so that you don't you you cannot do it
with your group,
you have to do it individually and the
one short final exam.
You have to do that on your own as well.
And that is what I told what I'm told.
That will I I need to do.
So I'll be I'll be following that policy.
Apologize for that because I do not know
that policy exists.
But now someone remind me that.
Any questions?
In which week would you add the second
graduate assignment in?
I will try to give it as soon as possible
and and and I'll give the deadline as of
last week, OK.
So then I'll give it to you sometime
between those weeks and then I'll say
just before your final presentation.
Just turn in that homework. That's it.
And then and then I will try to give that
final exam right before you know,
one week before the final presentation.
And then if you can just turn it in that
that final homework,
it gonna be take home,
you can open your book.
And then just turn in before the final
presentation.
That will be.
All right,
so the final exam is going to be much
more like the homework assignments we've
been already doing.
Or would it be more a gaps on projects?
Kind of a situation?
Not decided yet, but what I was told was.
I need to make it challenging.
That's why I'm told.
All right. Thanks.
Not, you know, I I don't know.
I haven't decided how to, you know.
How challenging that will be.
Hopefully not super challenging,
but some some work right.
So then,
because you guys are grad students.
You you should be doing more.
So then I think that's the understanding
and that's the policy.
So then I'll be following it,
unfortunately otherwise otherwise.
The school will consider those two
classes the same, which is, I don't know.
Honestly would choose bad for that,
but someone sent me some e-mail saying I
need to follow that.
Is there a reason that there has to be
both homework and additional homework and
an exam like I've been in plenty of these
other grad classes that don't have final
exams at the end.
I.
I hate bioexeem.
So then you can just basically consider
those are two additional homeworks.
Ben, it's it won't be that challenging.
It won't be that stressful.
And you can open book, you can open codes.
You can do a lot of things.
He he shouldn't be bothering you too much.
But why is there a final exam?
That's a good question.
I need to ask.
I I never heard about this policy.
So then I'm just being transparent and
telling you guys this is I'm planning to
do.
But.
Someone said.
There has to be some substantial
differences between the grad student grad
level class versus undergrad level class.
I do not know how someone defines
substantial differences.
I.
I I think adding one short final and then
one assignment will be making it
substantial.
So then we can just let it go.
That's that's my thought.
Definitely this is not something that you
know really helping you guys because that
means like you guys definitely gonna have
more work.
Apologize for that because I I don't know
that policy either.
Should I know that policy?
I guess yes.
But maybe next time we can make it better
so then.
But eventually issue this should grad
student do a little bit more on this I
guess is also yes.
Any question?
OK.
So so far this is.
This is the homework and proposal results,
right?
So then,
pretty good you guys view the pretty
solid foundation and then we do have a
survey, right?
So then, here's a survey results.
I do have a sample size equal to 7.
Potentially those are result from seven
groups in terms of course rate out of
five, the course rate is 3.9.
For the average and the median is 4.
And a standard deviation point I consider
this is not bad.
You know, follow my expectation.
So difficulty wise among those seven
groups, the difficulty is 3 point 3.
6 and the median is 4 standard deviation .
9 also. So it seems like the difficulty.
In terms of average, right?
So this is not high.
So which is not bad.
I do not know if that's 3.
6 only taking count of the materials with
covered during the class or just the
homework because something.
I couldn't connect is we're saying the
typical is 3.
6 out of five and the homework is close
to perfect?
Homework is definitely above 90,
so if I'm just reading from the numbers
right, the homework is.
In terms of relative score higher than 90
and then the rating of difficulty is 3.6.
In terms of average,
does that mean we do have a significant
room for?
Guiding the homework more difficult.
Just directly reading the numbers.
That's how I read those numbers.
Is that the way how you guys read the
numbers?
I don't think the homework needs to get
more difficult.
I think it's challenging.
OK.
So we we think that homework should be
kept as as was in terms of the difficulty.
Yeah, I agree.
OK, OK.
That's managing that way.
OK.
That's fine.
So here is I do receive your comments
right so then.
In order now to just use the direct
comments from you guys,
I use open Eyes GPT 4 to summarize your
comments, pros and cons and suggestions.
So then let's just go through everything.
So I also asked the GPT for to give me
the weight where the weight is generated
based upon the following criteria.
Right. So then the frequency of mentions,
have you mention similar things so many
times or definitely consider those are?
Higher weighted.
Comments, right?
So then and then you're tall.
The strength of the language you use.
Those those categories could be highly
emphasized and then how does your
suggestion pros and cons?
Suggestions related to learning a career
career?
Your own career.
So then that'll be considered as higher
weighted a comparative importance and
supporting core features.
So basically those are the criterias that.
I use.
I ask the ChatGPT to use.
To to to classify your comments into high,
medium, low.
Emphasis categories, right?
So then,
so then you will not see your direct raw
comments?
So they're they, they, they,
they have been summarized by AI.
The pros?
Will just quickly touch base on the pros
and focus on the Pro cons and and
suggestions.
I think you guys mentioned that this
cover some a lot of complex and relevant
topics. I I do believe so.
So we do have a guest.
Speakers provide a real world AI
experience. I do believe so.
In fact,
we do have three speaker coming in coming
in. One is on March the 31st.
So then the other two are are in in April,
so they're gonna talk about how AI is
working in their own area.
Try to give you guys more finance case
studies.
So that you can learn more.
Definitely trying to build some strong
foundation in Aiml. That's the motivation.
A medium emphasis so that we do have a
lot of lies and a code books.
So that's that's something that provided
to you guys and and if you are going to
be a quant,
it is definitely a perfect class for you.
And low was basically saying, hey,
it's important to learning Python Python
projects.
Basically flexibility.
I I really do not like final exam if if
the university doesn't require me to do
that,
I will just I don't give you guys any
final exam.
So those are pros,
so let's just focus on the cons, right.
So then we I can't just explain each one.
High emphasis,
heavy focus on coding stats.
Students want more AI applications and
case studies on business adoption.
Yes, highly focus on coding stats.
The reason I I think I already explained
at the beginning of the class is.
I do want you guys to have a taste of
those. The codes behind the scene,
how those,
how those results were generated.
That was the purpose of the one of the
purpose of this class.
I do need you guys to know the stats and
how you read those tables those results.
Because.
Even in the end,
you want to know a lot of AI applications
and case studies.
And if you are going to be the person
driving that product.
You have to know numbers.
And and in this current AI era.
You have to make the decisions based upon
numbers.
Eventually.
In the future that you guys gonna drive
some department,
you will have to be numbers against the
numbers. You, you know,
you guys learn finance,
you guys learn the not present value.
This is how you will be using how to go
or no go with your project right?
So that you guys do the corporate finance
and then to to you know to to to evaluate
whether or not the company is in is in.
Healthy condition.
And.
In the in this current world,
my take of how business running is,
you know, numbers against numbers.
You.
Show your numbers based upon your
assumptions compared to the other
person's numbers based upon their
assumptions,
and then you have a you you have view the
foundation to have a further conversation.
I do see this is getting more and more
utilized.
So then that's why I do want you guys to
know the coding and stats.
But if the question is about.
Is about whether or not we should have a
lot of Python coding, and then you know,
in the finance the most important thing,
the most important tool we're actually
using is Excel.
So I'll do some Excel examples so that
you guys can learn how to use Excel.
To to to build some models I will
definitely do that.
But Python coding is still going to be
there.
Lack of prior coding experience, making,
troubleshooting and understanding
assignments difficult.
I do acknowledge that this is definitely
one of the issues.
I do see if you do not have coding
experience before.
It's definitely difficult.
I do see that.
Back to my MBA period of time.
When when our professor offered, you know,
offered, you know.
Machine learning and AI class at at Booth
I do know a lot of my my peers.
They do not know how to code in.
Are how to call them Python?
They it's definitely an issue for them
and then back then that time there is no
AI and there is no BT.
So then they can just ask and then ask
the chat GP to call for them.
So that's an issue.
That's a problem from what I can see in
my peers.
Went through that difficult time.
They, they, they they survived.
They they definitely survived.
And and some of them are from Hashem,
some of them from big different companies,
consulting, managing, consulting.
They they don't have coding experience
they go through.
They were.
They're they're doing great.
So then the experience helped them to
eventually learn the job in big tax.
Some of them went to Google.
Some of them went to Amazon.
So then their feedback is this journey is
challenging is difficult.
Do they like it?
They'll definitely say they like it,
but during the process they don't like it,
but they they went through.
So then I since I do have AII do value
Marquette University as a great
university.
So then I'm just using the same standard
here.
So then you know you will be facing a lot
of competition.
Out of school.
So then my philosophy is you the better
suffer in the school than out of school.
Right. So then that's why, you know,
if you do feel prior, you know,
if you don't have coding experience is a
great opportunity to for you to pick that
up. Because if you go to your work,
if that you may need it and then it's
it's better suff.
Now than later.
That's how I'm thinking of why design is
class now like this way.
With that being said,
with that being said,
I did suggest that to the finance
department that maybe we should design
some class right before this one to have
the folks.
Start using some coding tools.
Learn some coding skills which going to
be.
A fundamental skill for everyone.
The course content heavy,
making it challenging to digest all the
materials in one long lecture.
I totally agree with that.
I don't think 3 hours class is really
helping us.
I don't like it.
I think I I believe there is another
another suggestion to say saying the
similar thing right.
So then in the past case scenario,
this class should be split into two.
Each one could be like A1, an hour A1A,
half an hour.
Now be the best case scenario.
Three hours.
Oh man, this is really challenging.
I do agree with that.
This is some suggestion I'm gonna present
at the board meeting.
So then hopefully someone gonna change it.
Coding errors can be frustrating all the
time.
All the time.
Luckily, luckily you guys have the AI.
When I was was undergrad,
my my undergrad was computational math.
So then I I learned A/C plus plus before.
Fortran, Java, Python, R.
So those are the programming language I
learned without AI, especially C.
You know you don't.
You miss a semi column.
It won't run through and then you have to
spend hours. So to debug the errors.
Totally error coding errors can be
frustrating,
especially without enough guidance or
troubleshooting resources.
I totally agree with you.
If you do face any issue troubleshooting
those codes.
The better suggestion is copy your code
and copy your error message to and and
paste in ChatGPT in the same prompt.
And help.
I ask GPD help you to decode debug.
Usually it's.
It's it's more in the future and for you
to just take a look at all the calls.
And and do use AI is definitely boost the
efficiency by at least 10 times. Uh.
But with that being said,
I understand you guys are using AI.
Understand you you using AI to solve a
lot of problems.
Try to split your problem into several
steps.
And solve the problem in each step.
Umm a general suggestion not to ask the
AI to solve a huge problem because the
the time you debug,
even with AI gonna be really really long.
I try to use AI to call the app for me.
Oh man, yes, in, in,
in one minute or two you will have pretty
much 90% of the calls ready for you for
the next three hours.
You just want to make sure every single
piece of the function will run inside
that app.
So it is challenging.
It is frustrating.
But you know when you code,
you have to do that.
But at least you have all the logic in
front of you.
That's much better than Excel because you
have those numbers.
You cannot guarantee those numbers are
correctly calculated because those
formula are are are hidden unless you
Click to show you the formula.
But usually people do that.
So take away.
I will give you guys more Excel examples.
It is challenging,
so hopefully in the future.
We we can,
we can redesign this class in a better
way.
So then one and half an hour per class.
Unfortunately,
coding debugging is frustrating and I,
you know, utilizing AI can help that.
And I do hope you guys can can
successfully go through this difficulty
difficult and challenging pro class when
you do not have the coding experience.
Believe me,
if you just if you can handle this in the
end, you survive from your class.
You the the way how you look at yourself.
You you know there's nothing you cannot.
There's nothing can block you and and and
you can start coding for something really
big K.
Medium emphasis student without a
business or finance background.
Find a finance aspect difficult to follow
and would benefit from over you before
diving into technical content.
Yes, that is true as always.
And then that's the motivation.
Why I I took it in my MBA because I'm
100% technical background.
I do not have any of well,
I sort of have some finance background
just because what I'm learning is for my
pH. D is is totally related with finance.
But I learned all the.
Finance aspects myself.
Is hard.
Because when I when I sort of took this
challenge to this class.
The finance department told me that you
guys should have the finance background.
I do not know why why I received this
this comments so I will need to circle
back to to finance department and then we
need to add some prerequisites.
For for this class.
A steep learning curve in math.
Make it difficult to validate models even
if coding logic is understood OK.
Comment on that.
Umm.
The coding logic is understood,
however it's it's hard.
It's it's, it's it's kind of the math,
looks like it's a blocker.
I I kind of agree with you.
However, with that being said.
Will have to do.
Will have to use more math when we are
talking about the neural networks.
The reason?
I move this class so fast we pretty much
cover all the existing classic models
before midterm.
Is I want to cover neural network
transformer and large Lancet models.
In the second-half of of this class,
because I sort of believe that you guys
choose register for this class,
not because of those tree models or
linear regressions.
I.
I I kind of believe that you guys choose
these class because you want to know more
of the large language models.
And I really do not want to have this
class to be those large language model
class to teach you guys how to use
ChatGPT and how do you guys how to teach
you guys write.
Good or bad? Prompt.
Like Pure experiment class.
Like what?
I said I want you guys to learn why large
language models are so bad dealing with
those numbers.
There is a reason behind Dean.
But you know, when we when human evolve,
the tools that human human beings decide
to use in mathematics.
It's the mathematics of getting
definitely getting more and more complex
when we move from linear regression to
tree models to neural network,
and we're gonna touch base on today.
I will make small examples to make the
math easy.
Easier for you, but it has to be.
It's really relatively easier.
Because when we talk about neural network,
it's a it's a black box.
When we talk about deep learning,
it's getting black box even even darker.
Not a lot of people really know like
what's going on over there,
so you can sort of have a math
understanding of what's going on and you
understand algorithm, you understand.
Idea how you train a model,
but if you say later on, right,
so then you have a math formula for you
to see like what we are seeing those
three models.
Hey. Hey,
it's bigger than some number we go.
We go left hand side.
Otherwise we go right hand side.
Those kind of structure.
You you,
you start losing that clarity going
forward.
And and you want to know why?
I said.
The temperature equal to 0.
I send the same question to that.
Oom by why do I still have two different
results?
Suppose the temperature equals to 0.
You should have a static result,
however you still have dynamic result.
Why is that?
You you can know the idea.
You can know the reason,
but you wouldn't expect like there is
randomness. All the place from now on.
So then the math is going to be more and
more difficult.
And what I can do is give you more
examples.
Make it more transparent.
So then you guys can have seen I have a
view of why those models work.
But it is impossible.
To make math easier from now, OK.
So lack of graded feedback on assignment
make it harder to judge expectations.
Sorry about that.
I really didn't have time to create your
homework,
and thanks to the the spring break I I
finished all the grading kind of work.
But from now on I will try my best to
grade their homework on time.
Online format,
a long lecture duration make focus and
retention difficult,
though recorded lectures help.
I do agree with that.
I.
I made a number of recommendation to
change to change this course in person.
I I never was.
I never was a fan,
not even a biggest fan of online class.
Not at all.
But my original.
Ask was to record his class.
Not even, you know,
talk to you guys in real time.
I I don't like that idea.
I push it back.
I think at least I need to talk to you
guys.
And then the department stopped it.
And then that's why we have the current
format.
And I was even pushing the the in person
class and then they they're saying that
let's just do online first.
And then that's why for one of the
speaker that gonna doing his presentation
on March the 31st,
I push my bass to make it in person.
So then at least we can have one class in
person.
At least I can see you guys and know you
guys right now.
You guys can only see me.
I don't see you guys.
So we just kind of interesting class.
Grad students prefer a biweekly meeting
format instead of weekly 3 hour sessions.
I totally agree with you guys,
not only grass students,
but undergrad students also want that.
Everyone wants that,
so this is one suggestion.
I need to make in a board meeting to the
Finance department.
A more fundamental approach to teaching
coding before applying financial models
will be beneficial.
I agree with you.
So then from next time,
we should have some prerequisite of this
class.
So then at least the students should have
some coding skills.
Addition.
Or guide and walk through will help.
Is coding experience exercises OK?
This is one of interesting feedback.
You guys know that I do have a Tuesday
and Thursday office hour.
Right.
So then it's from 4:30 PM to 5:30 PM so
far.
Uh.
From the first time Ioffer office hour to.
Not yet last week.
The week before last week.
The week before spring break,
there's only one student showed up in the
office hour.
I guess if we do need more walkthroughs
to help with coding,
it'll be really helpful for you guys to
show that in this office hours.
I I always was in the office hour.
But by the way,
I send an invite to you guys just wanna
double check.
Do you guys receive that invite for the
office hour?
Yeah, we get.
We get the invites for the office hours.
OK.
That's good.
So office hours are tomorrow, Tuesday,
Wednesday. I send this invite.
I always going to be showing up.
I do.
I did see only one person.
One student showed up, so I don't know.
If you guys need more help,
the office hour will be the best channel.
And then also I mentioned sorry,
why did I close it?
Oh, here's a Chad.
OK, I also have.
We also have the the teams, right?
So then here's a channel.
I hope you guys have the access to the
channel the the general channel.
If you do have any questions please ask.
That that, you know,
I know your question and your questions
certainly could be other folks questions.
So that we we can address a lot of folks
question together that would be great way
to upload.
And you know,
ask question in the channels, right?
The main channel general.
Do you guys have access to this? Teams,
umm. Channel.
Yeah.
OK.
All right. So then, yeah.
Just want to double check.
Just close it, sorry.
Right. OK.
So I think I covered all the accounts and
then I explain all your concerns.
Any questions?
No question OK here.
It should be suggestions.
Hi this is provide a brief overview of
the finance concept before coding to help
those without the finance background. OK,
I'll definitely do that.
Incorporate more in class coding.
Walkthrough is when the students write
code together for better understanding.
OK.
I'll try my best to do that.
Increase guest speakers who discuss AI
applications in real world business
adoption.
Yeah, we will have.
We'll have 3 speakers.
Coming in,
umm in the second-half of the semester?
Umm umm starting umm.
Starting the week of Marga 31st.
So one person will be talking about how
his firm is using aiml.
Another another speaker will talk about
the general investment trend in Aiml in
case you guys wanna start your own
company.
Right. So then.
He's he's from.
Of University of Chicago.
Another another speaker gonna talk about
in the in the stats Mlai consulting world.
How his firm is working with big
companies to use Mlai.
So I believe you have a lot of real world.
Business option through those
presentations, OK.
What was that being said? OK,
so my request to you guys is.
I will need you guys to have a better
preparation of those presentations, right.
So then in terms of questions you wanna
ask?
So then in terms of in terms of?
Interactions that you wanna do that do,
but do send me what you want to hear.
And I I do receive some really good
feedback, right?
So then,
for example in in Nadia's presentation,
you guys mentioned that maybe we should.
Maybe she should have.
She should have send a video before the
hand so you guys can watch it.
Yeah.
I I I think that's a perfect suggestion,
right?
So then I will do the same to to ask the
the future speakers to have them prepared.
Anything you guys want me to do,
I'll definitely transfer.
But I also want you guys to be prepared
in those presentations.
Because in terms of questions,
uh or or feedback, right?
So then yeah.
Offer more structured content with a
clear, uh, real world example.
So enhance comprehension, OK?
I'll try to do that.
Include detail step by step video.
Tutorials and a guide to walk through for
coding assignments,
including common errors.
Uh, I'll try but.
I'll also ask you guys to come to my
office hours.
So that's the time dedicated for guided
walk through for coding assignments.
Style by step video tutorials.
I will have to say no.
Detailed step by step videos.
That's very tricky.
I will not do that.
Just because I really do not have time.
So then you come to my office hour.
You post questions.
That's the two channels you can have.
Step by step guided walkthroughs.
Otherwise,
I assume you guys can handle it yourself,
right?
And because I do have the channel
designed for that purpose.
Yes.
And so far I don't think you. No one.
I don't think anyone's using that.
And then why do I provide more help if
you guys can do it?
Shift to a two day a week in person
lecture format for better engagement and
the retention.
I do agree with you.
So then we will make the change for in
the future.
Balance AI application with math and
coding by dictating one lecture to each
aspects.
Yeah.
Dedicated volunteerver each aspect. So OK.
OK.
So my understanding is we want to have.
Math and coding.
That was a math and coding by dedicating
1 lecture.
To each aspect.
Does it mean that we need to balance math
and coding 50 / 50 in one lecture or you
want one lecture with math and one
lecture with coding?
But I mean I can do either either way,
right?
So then I can do more math.
I can do more coding.
And that's totally fine with me.
Take more time to explain code in detail
during class.
I will try.
Like all I said,
it'll be better solution to come to the
office hour.
Introduce more structure discussion posts
where students analyze and discuss in
business.
OK, I'll I'll do some more posts on teams.
I'll I'll do some try,
provide additional sources,
like recommending GitHub accounts,
research papers and reading for further
exploration.
OK.
I will try to do more papers.
Improve the D2L page with more examples
and readings on accomplishing tasks.
OK.
So I guess this is similar to providing
more content.
Introduce smaller and more frequent
assignments, building knowledge.
OK.
Add in class.
Follow along assignments are increase
engagement.
The way I wanna increase engagement is I
wanna cancel this online class.
I.
I I want to move the entire class to be
in person.
Like the the work in office kind of
movement.
No one should be working from home,
in my opinion.
I really do not like that idea I.
Really hope that you know we can move
away from that working,
working from home culture.
To move everyone back to the office,
that's my opinion in person.
Definitely add value.
And then yes,
I totally agree with whoever made that
suggestion.
In class it will be 100%.
In class it'll be 100% in person,
office hour, no.
Working from home, no remote class.
I I'm totally aligned with that
suggestion.
OK, I think those are the feedbacks.
Any questions?
I agree with you Professor on having this
class in person as well.
Think it be beneficial for us all.
Yeah.
Yep, I totally agree with that.
And also I if I may make a suggestion
right.
So then like when I made the same
suggestion several weeks ago,
maybe you guys wanna turn on your camera.
So then that's just a mimic code and call
like in person kind of environment.
But it's really up to you.
Because from my perspective, you know,
teaching, teaching a class,
you know everyone is turned off their
camera.
I'm only the person talking.
Uh.
Is really challenging for myself.
Yep.
So the take away is.
We gonna cover more examples and then we
gonna do more Excel.
We gonna do.
We still have to do some coding and then
we have to do.
A lot math,
because unfortunately that's the reality.
And then in class in person kind of
engagement.
Is really hard for this semester.
Unfortunately for you guys.
So that's changed that I do.
Why you your feedback?
And this is this is super valuable for
the finance department.
I can finally tell them that.
For future class, don't make.
This class, at least this class online.
It's not helping.
And I will try to make the home future
homework the same difficulty.
But.
I will have to manage with that being
said, I'll have to manage that.
At least the score will be not like
everyone got a perfect score.
That's not going to happen.
OK, that everyone got a perfect score.
Home mortgages too easy in my opinion.
So then we have to address that.
So then I will track the average.
So hopefully our average will be 5.
5 some for almost all homework,
so that would be pretty good to me.
And then also for the grad students,
I need to clarify the definition.
And I'll let you let you guys know.
What I mean by additional homework and
additional final exam,
so to help you guys prepare OK.
Thank you for.
Taking this class and then thank you for
providing a survey.
I think those are really valuable
feedback, OK.
And to utilize the the office hour on
Tuesdays and and Thursdays, right.
So then that's I do see for a lot of
feedback that you guys need help and
there's a way of there's a way that I can
help you and do utilize those ways.
OK, last round any questions?
OK, perfect.
I'll close this one, OK.
So that's just finish.
OK, that's.
OK,
I think before the spring break we talked
about the support vector machines, right?
So then let's just quickly finish that.
So then we can move to the neural network,
right?
So this is a one the last.
Sort of classic models that we are
covering, right?
Right. So then what is this?
So it's a supervised machine learning
algorithm.
It's only using for classification task,
right?
So then the idea is quite unique is is
apply the optimal hyperplane a separate
data point?
With the maximized margin.
So then we talk about if you guys do
remember those dots, right?
So then we talk about what's the best way
to separate those blue and orange dots?
And then during our discussion.
We said OK.
The vertical line B is the best way to
separate those two groups of dots.
The reason is is that optimizing the
maximum distance to the blue dots and and
orange dots, so am A and C will offer.
One side.
A bigger distance, however,
for the other side it will be smaller,
so you will be really beneficial to
balance the distance from the two sides.
Think that's sort of.
A discussion we had in the previous week.
Sorry, in the previous class.
Oh, and this is some examples we made,
right?
So then we still believe that.
Maybe B is the best one.
So now we do have a two-dimensional world,
right?
So then we have those black dots.
We have those white dots, right?
So then in the X1X2 plane.
How we gonna separate them so clearly H1
is not separating the the black dots and
the and the white dots.
So the only real two candidates are H2
and H3.
So the difference between H2 and H3 is
the closest point to H2 offers a much
smaller distance to H2 compared to H3,
right?
So for example.
You know this, this one,
this black dots and this white dots are
the closest.
Point dots to H2 in each group and and
and then we will have.
Let me just draw on this.
So we'll have this and this as a
difference.
Separating those two groups of dots.
However,
consider H3 this and this will be the
distances separating those two groups of
dots.
Apparently this is a.
This is a bigger distance compared to
this.
This H3H2, so making H3A better candidate,
separating those two groups of dots.
Because it offered uh, bigger uh,
distance.
So that's sort of umm.
That's what we we have discussed and now
we also make the example that what if we
we have chosen H3.
However we start having one,
why does on the other side and the one
black dot on the other side.
So then I think our conclusion is we
still consider H3 as good just because.
Those two does maybe.
Number one, they, they,
they they may be nominees.
#2 is still maximize the distance between
the majority of black and and white dots
from the other another groups.
So then we still consider H3 as a better.
Better way to separate those two groups.
And then and then we're saying, OK,
what we're doing by choosing H3 is to
maximizing the margin between those two
groups.
When I say margin is the distance between
the closest out to the hyperplane H3 for
the black group that is this distance and
for the.
For the group of Y DOS that is this
distance.
We're maximizing the width of this.
This band.
That is exactly what we're doing. However,
compared to H2,
the distance of the band is just too
small.
So that's why we are not.
We are.
We should not always consider H2 as a as
a as a way to separate those two groups.
And then we gave another example that OK,
so.
This is one example we are seeing in X1
and X2 plane where.
Where X1 and X2 can be consider a
projection of higher dimensional plane to
this to this two-dimensional 2
dimensional plane.
So the H2, sorry H3.
It's a.
It's a line in the two-dimensional world.
However,
if you see this H3 in a three-dimensional
world, it's it's a it's a plane,
it's a hyper plane.
So then this is going to be a look.
It will look like this,
so it will be expanded to this way and it
will be expanded to this way.
So it will be a plane.
But however,
if you project it to X1 and X2,
it looks like a line.
But it is not.
It's a hyper plane.
So the idea is and and and also in the in
the three-dimensional world,
those may not be thoughts.
Those thoughts could be spheres, right?
Could be boss and then and then.
Now we are really talking about 3
dimensional world where we're saying this
X3 is just one dimension.
However,
this X3 could be could be two dimensions,
could be 3 dimensions,
and then we just write in this way.
Of a three-dimensional world. So then.
This this dot could be really spheres of
N dimensional spheres and then or or N
dimensional cylinders so they they they
can have a different possibilities.
Just looking at A2 dimensional
twodimensional world projection they look
like dots right?
So then we're really looking at a plane,
how to separate those.
In dimensional objects.
So so I think this is something new.
However, this is really.
Calculus.
102 I would say definitely not calculus
101.
So the question is given this.
So the way I'm running this is.
Wt is transposed over West by X + B.
Do you guys know what transpose is?
No.
OK.
OK, so I for one dimension, right?
So then if I have a WX plus B equals to 0,
do you know what what this is?
Suppose I know WI know B those are known.
Do you know what does this this equation?
What does this equation mean?
For example like let me say.
One One X + 2 equal to 0. What?
What is this?
In two-dimensional world.
This in the two-dimensional world you
have X&Y.
One X + 2 equal to 0.
That means X = -, 2.
So that is a line, OK.
That is a line here.
So this is X + 2 equals to 0.
So for whatever Y on this on this on this
vertical line it satisfy this this
equation X + 2 equal to 0.
OK.
And then we can generalize this idea,
where W could be W1 and W2.
Where so we can consider this as a vector.
Do you?
Do you guys learn a concept of vector
right vector?
I have, yes, but it's been a little while.
Yep.
Yes.
OK, lachter,
so lachter let's say W is W1 and W2.
So it's a single letter representing 2
numbers.
And in that sense,
the ax is not going to be an ax anymore.
Let me just erase all those
onedimensional things you guys already
know.
It's good.
So X will be a vector of two numbers X1.
And X2.
And B will be vector of two numbers B1.
And B2.
OK.
W.
T is a transpose of this vector,
so this vector looks like a vertical
vector so that you have ax one,
you have X2.
So to transpose of this one will be
horizontal X1 and W1 and W2.
So wt, multiply X.
So there will be this transpose transpose
a vector W one.
After 2, multiply this original vector.
X1 and X2.
And then let's let's assume this B is is
just one constant, just B.
Dimensional B OK.
So in this case.
Do you guys remember the matrix
multiplication?
If you have X W1W2.
Multiply this vertical X1X22.
What is the results?
The result will be this W 1 multiplied X1.
Plus this W2 multiply X2.
This is what this term represent.
So now if we just consider B as a
constant,
so then this equation literally mean W
1X1.
Plus.
West.
2X2.
Plus a BYU equal to 0.
OK.
This is exactly what this formula means.
So.
We we we discuss if W one.
Or W2 equal to 0 right?
So then we know it's just a line in in
one-dimensional world.
But what if W1 and W2 both are not equal
to 0?
W1W2 both are not 0.
And what does this represent?
So this represent.
The hyperplane.
That's a hyperplane in this
three-dimensional world.
Let's call it Z.
Could be someone like this?
It'll be a hyperplane.
So then,
however it is aligned in a 2D world,
but it is what it means.
It's three.
D World is a hyper plane.
So so any difference between a point to
this to this line will be following this
equation.
However,
any point in higher end dimensional world
to that plane will be similar to that
formula will be looking like this.
Yes.
So you just plug in its X1X2 XN to this
formula.
And and then and then divide it by the
square root of all the weights.
That will be your your distance from that
point to the hyperplane.
You know like here.
You have a point.
Here's your hyperplane and.
And here is going to be your distance.
To the the the projection of that point
to this hyperplane.
And this is a formula.
So you don't have to know,
you can just remember memorize the
formula.
So what you can just use it right?
So then for any single point to this H3,
you have a way to calculate the distance,
right?
You have a way to calculate the distance.
Let's assume that.
I I have.
All the group of.
A black point to reach a three is bigger
than this D.
And then let's say all the points of here
are less than minus D.
So what does that mean?
So it's sort of like here.
Here's ad.
Here's a -, D.
I.
Do some magic rotation.
I can have all the blacks points in here.
All the Y points in here.
So then and then this is my H3.
This Y axis is my H3 so that I have all
the black dots here.
I have all the white dots here.
So that I have all the black dots that
leads to the H3. There's a vertical line.
Have a distance bigger than D because
this is definitely on the right hand side
of this,
this this X = d hyperplane and I have all
the Y dots less than minus D.
So then.
This minus D to D.
This kind of.
And this kind of a band is separating
those two two different two different
groups of of of dots. So.
This sort of is the idea of SVM can be
find a magic number D to separate two
different groups.
So.
It is not that obvious to see in this
chart, because in this chart,
how do you say this one is positive and
how do you say this one's minus D?
So the way how you do that is actually a
rotation.
So that's why you can always define
another X axis.
Here that is orthogonal to this H3 plane.
So then.
You define this as actually your X.
And this is actually your D and this is
your minus D you can always do this
rotation like you gonna rotate in this
way and then you do this rotation and
then you you see this and then this
rotation.
So we can mathematically we can do it
free for you and after rotation you
project this to.
Xy XY2D plane so that you can define.
And DN minus D, so we can say, hey,
those black dots are bigger than D and
these Y dots are minus negative D.
So those two groups of dots are separated
by.
A 2D with band.
So that's is the idea.
So if we say this guy is bigger than D
and this guy is less than minus D,
I'm literally utilizing the the formula
for each dot to this H3 plane.
I have that distance and then I have that
distance.
I want those guys bigger than D and I
want those guys minus less than D my less
than minus D.
So then,
since the D as a distance is definitely
bigger than 0,
I can divide the two side of the
inequality by D.
That's why I have this and that's why I
have this.
So we can always normalize.
The denominator to make everything here
equal to one, we can always do that.
So if we do that,
I just can cancel out this denominator to
make this formula look better.
So when I define,
the black dots are Y equal to one and I
define those Y.
Dots are y = -, 1 I have.
When I'm talking about the black dots.
I have this numerator.
Gonna want just because I defy my
denominator equal to 1 so that I can just
ignore it and I can say all the Y dots
which I define them as Y equal -1.
I have the numerator less than -1,
so then I can do a trick that is a
multiplication of those two.
I can successfully cancel this minus sign.
So that's why I have this formula in the
end.
So for all the machine learning books you
you'll be,
you'll see that SVM is requiring this
formula,
and this is exactly where this formula is
coming from.
So the idea is not that hard.
However,
you have to go through all those steps.
In the end you have this formula and this
is the formula.
You know the the the computer science.
Programmer gonna base upon.
Without being sad.
You what you need to remember the
remember is so the SVM.
The idea is how can we find?
A 2D width band to separate those two
group of points in an dimensional in a N
dimensional world.
And the center hyper plane of that 2D
with band is the hyperplane we are going
to use to separate those two groups of
two groups of two two groups of dots.
Or two groups of data.
That is how the SVM is working.
Essentially, in an N dimensional world.
Hopefully that's making sense to you guys,
but but this is a really the math
background behind this and you can
definitely read this slide after class,
but you don't have to follow every single
stab in here.
You can just remember sort of making
sense of the SVM is finding one
hyperplane.
To separate two different groups of dots.
That's the idea.
If you have that idea in your mind,
that's great enough.
So this is sort of the we are just
looking for that hyperplane that is our
job to run in the codes to finding to
find the best SVM.
Where the margin.
The margin is the width of the band.
How?
How how much margin is basically we're
talking about how big the yud is.
The objective is really to maximize the
margin.
Uh,
so you if you remember the H2 and H3 the
two ways of separated and then why we
chose H3 is through.
This step to minimize this by maximizing
this by maximizing the margin.
And there is a two different margins like
what we have discussed.
One is called hard margin where in hard
margin literally there is no.
Dots from the opposite group is within
that band, for example.
I can clearly separate those two group of
dots that is called margin the soft
margin.
Can I just take one step back?
Can I have a margin or hyperplane?
Sort of block a separate majority of
those two groups.
With knowing that some of those points
are still within that margin,
but still a win for me,
so that is called soft margin.
The difference between hard margin and
soft margin is whether or not there is a
tolerance for class Miss Classic.
Occasion.
For hard there's no tolerance for soft
there are some tiny.
Misclassification that is allowed.
A party,
if you can find a hard margin to separate
the two groups of.
That's definitely a better,
best case scenario,
but you you may not end up with having a
higher margin all the time.
It's really eventually really like
whether or not you solve.
Ad prop. 80% of the problem.
So if 8020 rule is still works and then
if you believe in that rule so then you
may believe soft margin will work.
OK.
So here is how we really separate those
those two data so that I have this blue
dots, I have the cross and then.
So how to visualize SVM is here is 1
hyperplane.
Separate those.
So then you definitely have those.
Those blue dots in here,
you definitely have those.
Crossing here and definitely you can see
this is is a soft margin just because you
do have some misclassification in each.
The separate region, so it is soft margin.
OK.
So this is already using a linear
function out of box SVM to to separate
those.
And then there's a concept you said is
using linear kernel.
So what is a kernel?
So kernel is one function that is helping
us to separate those dots.
You can totally ignore those.
Let's just take a look at one example.
Let's say we do have.
Those red rectangles surrounded by those
green dots, right? So then.
That's considered as.
Just imagine that a linear function.
How can we use a linear function to
separate?
Those red dots from those green dots or
those red rectangles from those green
circles?
There's no way,
because every single linear function
you're trying,
you'll have a lot of a misclassification.
What we are thinking as a human being is.
How about we can find a circle here.
That will be the best case scenario,
but the way how to find a circle is quite
tricky in machine learning.
Just because this circle,
how do you define in each circle what is
the margin between?
This red rectangle region versus the the
green circle region.
That's so hard where we can just apply
this kernel kind of concept.
What kernel mean?
The kernel is just a function.
Like.
Like all the functions we were talking
about,
the kernel is adding more is solving this
problem by adding more complexity to it.
So now we have those red rectangles and
and green circles in 2D world.
In circles we can actually.
Adding or transforming those 2D dots or
rectangles into 3D World.
So then we can make these two D we can
project these two D.
Sets of points to a 3D World and
hopefully we can make it like.
This mountain.
Kind of shape. If we do,
if we are able to do that and then the
way how to separate this is really easy
because those red rectangles are on the
top of this mount and those green circles
on the bottom of this, this mountain,
so that you can.
Sort of.
Block them from the middle of the month.
That is the way how to separate them.
So this kernel is doing that trick is to
provide to solve the problem by adding
some complexity.
Usually that is helping like this.
However,
how you their the default kernel we're
using is cutting the plane by a linear
function,
so we're actually using a linear kernel.
So.
So this is sort of way to say that for
every time you run the SVM,
we are assuming we have a linear kernel.
But we can always apply different non
linear kernels.
A polynomial kernel with the RBF kernel
to transfer.
The data to either 3 dimensional world or
four dimensional world.
That's actually easier for us to separate
them.
So that this is how you will be using
kernel and it is how the kernel is
working.
In SVM.
But good news is.
The SVM is one step earlier than your
network.
With neural network you do not have to
define a kernel ourselves.
And you and I were gonna do that work for
you.
So that's the reason why the SVM is so
popular.
For a period of the time and later on,
I don't think a lot of people are still
using SVM because the neural network can
do a much convenient work for us than SVM.
At least I didn't use SVM quite often,
but you need to understand this kernel
concept.
Is bringing more complexity.
And and transfer this data and it's
actually easier to solve.
So for example.
In A2 dimensional world we have those
zeros and ones looks like this.
I understand.
It's sort of like.
It's it's really difficult to to to
separate because if you use any linear
function you see this linear function is
not helping us separating those.
Two groups of.
Blue dots and then and the red crosses.
It's just impossible.
What we are hoping is we hope to have a
boundary like this to separate those two
groups, but as you can see,
that is definitely not a linear function.
It is definitely a nonlinear function
here.
So then we really cannot use a linear
kernel to achieve this.
So you will need some nonlinear kernels
to achieve this.
So using linear function you couldn't do
that and even use a polynomial and so
nonlinear is really hard to do.
Well,
actually I'm using a polynomial here,
so that is sort of a doing this way.
So there's only one missing,
which is awesome.
And I tried RBF.
It's even more missing.
So then at least you can achieve that is
achieve like 95% of work which is why the
kernels are so great in achieving those
two those tasks.
So however the the caveat is that you.
Only you will need to choose the right
kernel all the time.
Sometimes you have.
You can visualize the data in this way,
so then you can see that the boundary has
to be nonlinear.
So then you can choose a nonlinear kernel,
but sometimes that you you you do not you.
If you don't visualize the data,
you cannot choose a nonlinear kernel.
So then that's reason why.
Your your end result may not be so great,
OK.
Let me show you the code how I generate
those results and then we can take a
break.
And then when we come back,
we talk about the neural networks.
The reason?
I'm just moving this SVM so quickly just
because this is something that one last
traditional machine learning model we're
gonna cover.
I really wanna finish this one.
So then we can have more time on your
network.
OK.
Here's the SVM code.
So only thing that is different is you
will be.
So you'll be importing this SVC function
so.
From this SVM package of SK learn OK,
all the other things are are the same,
so you still make the classifications and
then I this is a.
This is a way I'm making that example the
moon example I'll show you later.
And this is you do the train test lead.
You just.
You just import logistic regression as
before.
You have all different kind of score from
metrics.
You have those accuracy.
You have those classification.
You have those confusion matrix and here
are those are the explanation of those
metrics.
So first I just generate some linear
separable examples like this.
The first example I'm showing you guys,
I I I definitely split into train and
half and then the data look like this.
So if I do try a linear regression for
sorry logistic regression,
so the result isn't that bad,
so I just misclassify those five dots in
here so that I do have accuracy 88%.
I do have my iPhone score pretty decent,
so it's not bad.
Umm.
If I try I just train this SVM model
using the SVC function.
I say the kernel is linear.
The reason I see kernel is linear is I I
sort of can see that a Direct Line of
disk could separate those those data
points.
So now I just train a model.
I feed a train and a train train and then
test it on the test data set.
So I I can see this is not even as good.
As the logistic regression as you can see,
the logistic regression,
I do have 88% accuracy.
I only misclassify those five points and
here I misclassify not only those five of
one additional points.
And that's why my accuracy is even lower.
Honestly,
the the F1 scores are not looking so bad.
So then what I can say is,
at least for those are linear function,
linear function,
separable datasets I don't think.
The the support vector machine is
providing tremendous value compared to
logistic regression because from this
example they are really comparable.
If not worse.
So then you can see how we separate those
boundaries.
The only thing that gonna make a huge
difference is to use is make more
functions that you're gonna start seeing.
The data looks like this.
That is definitely not separable by
logistic regression.
You do logistic regression.
You see that still achieving 90% by doing
this.
So this is a really like the best
logistic regression can do.
Just find a a linear linear line to
separate those two groups of data.
But as you can see from visualization
perspective, a lot of misclassifications.
The reason we still achieve the 90%
accuracy is we are only taking a into
account of the tasks data set. I don't.
Consider the the train. So then.
That's why it is not so bad 90%.
But if I put the train and task together,
you can definitely see.
You can definitely see that we are we are
misclassifying a lot of data points in
here in this in this on this chart.
However,
let's do this support vector machine SVM
so that we know the linear separator
won't work.
So then this the first time we say, hey,
that's the choose,
the kernel to be a polynomial,
and we chose to use degree code to three,
and you can definitely try different
degrees.
Three is you. You're saying.
We allow X ^3 terms and X ^2 terms in
this in this kernel.
How we project those data to a different
plane?
So you try this this SVM model.
You try this polynomial kernel and now
you see the accuracy is 97% compared to
logistic regression which is 90.
And from visualization perspective this
looks much better than the linear
functions separating those two groups.
Because.
Your I see.
The way how they partition the entire
plane, I'm so convinced that that is one.
This one is definitely better, right?
And then also you can try this RBF and
then the result is comparable 97.
So it seems like.
The real comparison is nonlinear kernel
versus linear kernel,
where the linear kernel is just a
logistic regression.
Right.
So then so then in the data to to
separate the data looks like those.
Certainly nonlinear.
You use a nonlinear kernel to separate
them.
And then code is super simple.
You just need to call this SVC function.
You just need to define a kernel.
You have only three options, linear,
Poly and RBS.
When you say linear just say linear.
And then when you say polynomial,
you need to define a degree and a
coefficient 0.
Whether or not you allow the intercept.
You can try different values whenever
give you the best accuracy.
You can choose that one.
And and then you just fit based upon your
training train X and train Y and that's
how you build a model in those two lines
of code you have your model and you can
just evaluate based upon your test X and
test Y.
You do your prediction.
You compare your prediction versus the
actual.
Values so then.
In that you have this classification
confusion matrix and the classification
report.
Remember,
this SVM can only work on classification
problems.
And you are not going to use this SVM to
to solve any regression problem where the
regression problem is.
To predict the continuous Y values.
OK.
So that's the quick version of touch
based on the SVM.
So now we can officially close all the
conventional machine learning models and
then we can start talking about the
neural network.
Any questions before break?
No.
Oh, perfect.
No, no question, right.
It's I upload the codes.
It should be pretty simple.
And then let's take a 15 minute break.
We come back 721 and and we will start
talking about neural networks, OK?
I'll see you guys in 50 minutes.
15 minutes.
OK.
Welcome back.
Scoring.
All right.
Can you guys hear me?
Jim.
Perfect.
OK so.
We'll be moving slowly or neural network.
We'll be moving much smaller than the
previous models in your network. OK,
so then.
The reason is this model starting from
neural network.
Actually we're we're dealing with the
black boxes.
Will be losing the sign of how the model
works.
But we we know the structure, OK,
we we we the structure we know them how
we build the model.
But eventually,
how the model is generated,
some of the results is it's it's really
hard to explain.
So you'll have to learn how to read the
reports.
Coming out of the model.
So that's the only way that you start.
Sensing how the model really works OK.
So then we gonna move really slowly.
From now on,
so really I've I I I need to make sure
every single staff you understand what's
going on.
Before we move further.
So then we let's just spend today to
review.
Some of the concepts and I hope you
understand it so that we don't have to
spend more time on it,
but I think some investment on review is
still valuable.
OK.
So first thing is I do want you guys to
review one thing that's called chain rule.
The reason?
Why Chain rule is so important is?
Eventually,
if you think through the neural network
and then you won't say, hey,
what is the most important?
What are the most important concept we
gonna use in your network?
And one of those most important concept
be using in neural network is.
Chair roll. OK.
So then I believe you guys learn it in
calculus 101.
But not just take one step back to review
the change rule.
OK.
So the chain rule is solving a problem
that we gonna take the derivative of H of
X.
Where H of X is a function F of a
function G of X.
OK,
for example H of X equals two X + 3 to
the Q. OK now.
We can consider.
That F of X = X ^3 and G of X = 2 + X.
So then I know F of G of X equals two X +
3 ^3.
Just plug in two X + 3 and this F of X.
You have this H of X.
So let's say we have H of X equals this.
The derivative of H in terms of X.
Actually is not like this.
Is the derivative of F.
By plug in geovax,
multiply the derivative of G.
So for example,
I know my H of X equals two X + 3 ^3.
I know my F of X = X ^3 my G of X equals
two X + 3. My derivative of F is 3.
X ^2 you have.
The you have the exponential piece to the
friend and then the 3 -, 1.
I have a three X square.
I have the derivative of.
G with respect to X.
Equals to two.
So then the derivative of H of X with
respect to X is the derivative of F.
Of two plus two X + 3, which is G.
Multiply the two,
which is derivative of G.
So then I know the derivative of F is
three X ^2.
So then I have F prime equal 3 X squared
and I plug in X equal to two X + 3.
I have 3.
Two X + 3 ^2 multiply 2 which is 6.
Multiply by two X + 3 ^2.
And this is how the chain rule works.
S.
Any question how I calculate the
derivative of H of X?
In this example.
OK, perfect.
Then I do have a group work.
The HL fax equals E to the three X + 3.
I have H of X = 1 / 1 + E to the XI want
to set up the rooms for you guys to spend
5 minutes on both of them and eventually
give me an answer.
What are the derivative of those two
different H of X?
OK.
You can do Google, but you in this time.
I'm trying not to use.
AI try to have a piece of paper and write
it down or discuss with your peers and
the figure out and answer yourself. OK,
because this chain rule will be really,
really important in neural network.
I want you at least to have a hands on
session for, for,
for for this 5 minutes OK.
So I'll set up a room.
So separate rooms.
So then you guys spend 5 minutes over
there.
OK.
Let me do that.
All right.
Did you guys figure it out the the
derivative of those two hlvx functions?
Sure, my screen.
Yeah.
OK, perfect.
We want to be the volunteer for for the
first one so.
E2.
The three X + 3.
So we did.
We we came up with 3 * E to the three X +
3.
Perfect. So it's correct.
Uh, let me just uh, OK.
It should.
I'm of the X.
So you're saying A/C call 3E2 now?
E2 the.
Ah, Rex.
That sucks. That is perfect.
How how did you do that, Matt?
So you use the chain rule.
Mm hmm.
And then.
Derivative of the exponent is 3 and then
derivative of E to whatever is always E
Mm hmm.
like the same thing.
Correct.
Yeah.
So a derivative of E to the X equal to E
to the X and AG of X equal 3X plus 3A
derivative of G equal 3.
So that's why you have a three here.
You have AE 2, three X + 3.
OK, perfect.
How about the second one?
Any luck? A second one.
Yeah, we did.
We got negative E to the X / 1 + E to the
X ^2.
Perfect.
And then I guess you you saying Apple X
equals?
One or X.
Or X to the -1.
Yeah, X to the -1.
Yeah,
treating blacks equals one plus etuda X,
right?
Yep.
Say it's X to the -1 easier to see.
OK.
So then the durable X to the -1 is -1 X
to the -2.
So then you plug in EE 1 + E to the X and
derivative of G is just E to the X.
So then that's why you have minus E to
the X / E to the E to the X 1 + E to the
X ^2. That's perfect. OK.
So there's a good review of chain rule.
So how I hope everybody.
Got you know their you know the memory
bag of chain rule.
Because we are certainly use that. OK,
so this is a first serve review.
A second review is so that we have touch
base on all the machine learning models
and here is sort of the recipe how we
introduce those guys, right.
So then first we need to have data, right?
Except for.
The the clustering analysis.
All the data that we have are labeled
data.
Meaning labeled data,
meaning that we have a classification.
We can say either they have a group,
one versus Group 2,
or Group One versus Group 2 versus Group
Group 3.
So then we have those labels.
What kind of groups they are or we have
we have a continuous value that we use to
to label one single set of.
Information.
Right. So then we have the house size.
We have the House number of rooms,
we have the location,
those kind of information and we put a
label on that set of information saying
that is the price of that House.
So then we do have labeled data.
We do have independent variables for
independent variables.
Could be you know house size,
number of rooms,
the location of the house where the
dependent variable is.
We use those independent variable.
To make that dependent variable makes
sense.
So why the hell is selling $1 million a
while while another house nearby only
sells 1/2 of it?
So then,
so then we are using independent value,
we independent variable to explain that
dependent variable or at least we
consider dependent variable is a function
of independent variables.
So then we have a training data as a
first ever step.
The second step is.
Is we choose uh,
a method that we gonna we gonna use.
We choose a decision function. What?
What decision function we're talking
about.
Are we talking?
Where are we going to use logistic
regression?
Are we going to use a linear regression?
Are we going to use a tree model?
Are we going to use K NN?
So then we will decide a function to this
to to to make the decision for the.
Dependent variable using all the
independent variables.
So we choose a decision function and then
we also choose a loss function.
So how are we going to say,
how are we going to determine whether or
not a model is ready?
So we we use a train and test speed,
we build a model based upon the decision
function we chose.
And then we use a loss function to tell
us, hey.
My model is ready to use and this my
model is ready to use.
On the task data.
So the last function could be the last
function could be mean squared error.
The last function could be entropy for
classification.
So then we have to choose a method and
then we have to choose a way how to
quantify how good or bad our model.
Is in terms of generating.
The predictions of the dependent
variables and then we need to define a
goal.
Assuming now we already define a loss
function,
our goal is we want to minimize the
prediction error.
We want to maximize F1 score.
We we we or we want to just sort of like
were you guys working on a business right?
So then we want to maximize revenue.
We want to maximize margin.
Sometimes the goal you are setting up may
drive totally.
Two different models. For example,
if you want to maximize the revenue.
You may end up with some not so great
margin result. However,
if you want to maximize margin percent,
you may eventually have the best revenue
results.
So then you need to know what you want.
So then you are going to define a goal
and then the last step is we are going to
use a way to optimize the model and then
to achieve the goal that we have by using
the decision function on loss function.
So sort of, we are optimizing the model.
This is the machine learning recipe.
The data.
The method we're going to use,
what goal we want to achieve.
And we run the iterations to achieve the
goal.
So that is a machine learning recipe,
right?
Let me just give you guys some examples
that we already touch base on.
So for example,
my prediction target might dependent
variable is house price, right?
So then we definitely walk work on that
data set, right?
So then we have our independent variables.
We have the house size, the living room,
kitchen, basement, et cetera.
We have a number of rooms.
We have house conditions,
we have a location, et cetera.
Those are our independent variables.
We have those data right?
We have.
We have done that exercise and then we
through the journey before, for, for,
for the beginning to now we have tasks it
on linear regression.
We have tried the KNN,
we have tried the tree models and if you
learn the loss function we use it's a
mean square.
Error.
So then what our goal is we want to mix
minimize the difference between the
predicted house price and actual house
price.
That is our goal,
and if you remember the way how we talk
about the tree model,
we actually talk about one concept called
gradient descent, right?
So then we take the small steps to
achieve the goal and then we take small
steps to separate the tree, right?
So then we we take small steps to build
what kind of a number of neighborhood we
should be using using KNN, right? So then?
This is how we predict the house price.
We are just directly following this
recipe.
And remember, we have done this.
This company bankruptcy example that this
this the classification example.
So then we use their revenue margin
current ratio, quick ratio,
a lot of different ratios as independent
variable.
We are assuming that there is going to be
some.
There will be some leading indicators
that.
Tells us whether or not a company is
going to bankrupt.
And then we try the logistic regression.
We try the tree models and then in those
mod, if you don't remember,
but we definitely use entropy function
and I'll remind you what entropy function
is and then we want to maximize the
position,
recall score as much as possible.
So and then using those tree models,
we definitely also use a gradient descent
for logistic regression.
We didn't use much of optimization
because just just.
Pretty much like a one time running a
model, but we can definitely optimize it.
So this is the recipe of machine learning
and what does it mean to neural network?
So neural network is a new class of
decision functions.
We're still gonna get the same training
data,
but now instead of in addition to tree
models and regression models,
we will add neural network to this
decision.
Functions right?
But we're we're we're still going to use
existing loss functions that we have
learned.
So how we tell the models good or bad?
We still use whatever we have already
learned.
Nothing new in here,
but we just add one decision function.
One family of models here.
And this is too small.
And and then one thing we will add to the
optimization,
the goal will keep the goal the same as
before.
The bad propagation is one way we will be
using to optimize the neural networks.
So in addition to the gradient descent,
so then conceptually the back propagation
is the same or similar.
Well, 90% similar to gradient descent.
And then if you just want to know the
core idea of about propagation,
you actually found the back propagation
is a fancy name of chain rule.
So then eventually we're just applying
chain rule here in the back propagation
of the neural network step, right?
So then the neural network is.
Not super new or novel for this machine
learning recipe.
We're just adding two new flavors.
One is we add new network as a new
decision function.
#2 is we're introducing A11 new
optimization method that is called back
propagation OK.
That's the only thing new in the neural
network.
OK,
the main loss functions as what I said.
We're using the main the mean squared
error.
Which is MSE for regression problem.
What is that?
That is our prediction as ay hat our
actual value of Y.
I want to compare the difference between
my actual value and my prediction my
predicted value.
I calculate the difference.
I square the difference.
I summon the mob and take the average.
A lot of the time we know our sample size.
Is the same meaning this little N is the
same.
So we can just ignore this one over a 1 /
N this.
Taking average P step so that we can save
a lot of computation power so that we
just sum up all the square difference.
So this is not necessarily MSE,
it will be the sum of the square errors.
So then when we talk about MSE,
I may actually refer to SSE,
which is sum of a square errors because
we are always dealing with the same
sample size. So MSE.
And SSE,
they have a different value and only
difference is.
The wine has taken the average of msse.
Another one is not taking average so.
Conceptually, they are the same.
For classification we are using is cross
entropy function where the cross entropy
is like this.
So the TI is one of the two values.
It's either zero or one if this TI equal
to one.
I just want to know the probability of
this TI being.
If TI is actually zero,
I want to know the probability of.
This ti being zero and I want to know my
Y you multiply the logarithm of my
probability and sum them up.
This is the entropy function definition.
I will definitely use that for
classification problem and this is going
to be my main loss function for
classification.
OK.
So then we we literally just use those
two different loss functions.
One is for regression,
another one for classification.
OK.
And then eventually,
we're gonna show the classification in
those.
Tables that we are familiar with.
The the confusion matrix the the
precision, recall, F1 scores.
OK.
Next one is the gradient descent, right?
So the gradient descent is. Is this so?
It's an optimization algorithm and we
gonna find the best.
Parameters that minimize SSE.
So now let me show you the first ever
Excel example.
So.
OK, I already view this one,
but I can just definitely view this in
real time so that we can see.
I can show you guys how I actually build
it, OK.
So let me just copy paste the sum of data
so now I don't have to build.
I don't have to redo it.
So here.
Is.
To make it bigger.
OK.
Let's pretend I know the function that is
ay equals 7 + 3 X.
In this sense,
I will add some noise to here because I
do want to make this problem challenging
so that I really do not want to say hey,
I literally know this is 7 + 3 X.
So then I will say here, here are my apps.
As you can see from .1 to 1.5.
And my noise is a random number.
Multiply the magnitude of of this noise.
So then there will be the random number
multip 19 which is this .
1 as a parameter I'm setting here.
Right. So then this one,
I can say this is a .2.
Let me just try .2. That's totally fine.
So then my Y is 7 + 3 multiplied by my X
and then plus my noise.
I have this Yi want to know how can I
just go from this ax to this Y without
using the linear regression model.
OK.
So let's say I know this is a.
Let's say I I do know this is a linear.
Linear model I will be using.
So the next say I have AMB.
Let's say I try A to B0.
I try B to be 0.
OK.
So then I set up like two initial values.
Yes, this color that's over right.
We use a different color.
Let's say I have two initial values,
A and B.
OK, those, those are the value.
I'm just guessing right?
So then I can have my Y hat uh to be.
My X.
Multiply by a by initial guess of A plus
my B.
That'll be my initial guess of.
Of.
Of my prediction.
So then I set him as constant.
So then I can copy and paste in here.
Oh.
Uh, here we go.
OK.
As you can see, right?
So now I'm guessing my intercept as a
zero and my slope as zero as say slope.
Intercept.
Right. So then my Y hat are zeroes.
Now as you can see,
whenever I I copy paste do something the
value changes because this random number
generator is always changing numbers.
I don't want to make it static so then
just bear with me if you do see those.
Yy values change.
So my Y hat are all zeroes.
This is a. This is not a great prediction,
but I can still calculate error where the
error is my Y my actual Y minus my Y hat
which is my prediction.
As you can see this is not a great error
because I have all the errors super big.
Right, so now I can try an error squared.
So my error squared.
I'm just basically squared out.
Those errors.
Here are my what?
I have OK.
So now I'm going to calculate this
average where the average is.
You know your you guys are familiar with
the Excel function average of all the
errors squared. OK.
What is this average?
Do you recall what this average is?
Remember this error square is my.
Error squared and my error is my column C
minus my column I and that is my actual Y
minus my prediction of Y and take an
average.
What is the average if you guys remember?
So that is.
Our famous.
Our metric MSE.
So MSE is I'm taking the average between
my actual values and my prediction and
I'm taking a square and that different
square and that is.
Exactly what?
I'm calculating here so this is not a
regular average, this is MSE.
So I will have this table prepared and I
have my MSE here.
OK.
Let's try one more thing. Sorry.
A beauty stable on on windows and right
now I'm using umm.
Mac.
Let's try one more thing.
Let's change the slope to .
5 instead of a 00.
So then we will have a different.
Set of Y hat.
There will be this X multiplying this
slope and plus this intercept.
So then I can make those constant.
OK.
I have this .05 here.
That's a correct and I can recall it.
My error that'll be this Y minus this.
I have this value so now I can calculate.
I can do this calculation for all of
those values.
As you can see, I have a new MSE.
Let's try another thing.
Let's get the slope equal to 0 and
intercept equal to 05.
So I'm still doing the trick.
Help help you guys can see.
I recalculate to be this X multiply this
slope.
Plus this is intercept and make them as
constant.
Static and I recalculate my error.
Minus is Y hat.
I still have this error squared.
So.
I see my MSE again.
As you can see, right?
I change my slope from 02.5.
I got my MSE from this imperfect 92 to
this.
Still imperfect, but better 84.
Right.
So if I could calculate the change of MSE.
Divide by change of slope, right?
So then we can do this.
Let's do that.
The change of MSE is.
This minus this.
And the change of slope is .5 -, 0.
So I have this change of MSE divided by
change of slope number -15.87.
7/3 I have AI have.
AI have AI have a big number.
It's an active number, OK?
So.
First question I calculated as change of
MSE divided by the change of slope.
Does this ratio remind you something?
What does change of MSE?
Divide by change of slope mean?
So if you guys recall the the concept of
derivative right, so.
This let me just.
Merge these change of MSE versus change
of a slope.
This one is really the derivative.
Of Mic with respect to slope.
That's the same concept,
and this value is -15.
91 and then the reason you change the
value just because my random number kept
changing.
OK.
And number two question is we change this
slope from zero to .5?
To .5 right.
So that we got.
Mse smaller and we got a derivative,
a minus number.
So then if I change slope from .0 to .
5 I got MSE smaller.
Can you guys tell me should I try the
next slope?
Bigger than .5 or smaller than .5.
Bigger.
Bigger, that's a great observation.
We should try a new slope bigger than .
5 S if we want to try a number bigger
than .5 S, then that is the opposite.
Direction to the slope because we want to.
Our slope is telling us a negative number.
However, we will try.
A.
A bigger number.
So then the the next step we will be
trying some slope that is to the opposite
direction that this this directive is
pointing to.
So if the director is telling negative,
we gonna add some value to this slope.
However,
in some cases you see these derivatives
are positive.
Now means you want to lower the slope.
We always go the opposite direction to
the derivative MSE with this with respect
to slope.
Similarly, we can calculate.
The change of MSE with respect to
intercept.
Where exactly the same way that is,
we only changed intercept.
I have the the new MSE minus the original
MSE divided by my new INTERCEPT minus.
The older intercept.
I have a different derivative.
And this one is derivative.
Of MSE with respect with respect to
intercept.
And similarly to the slope.
Similar to slope,
we know we raised the intercept from zero
to .5, keeping the slope the same.
We have MSE smaller from 91.8 to 92.
6 so that we should always we should try.
A bigger.
Intercept.
Which is also the opposite.
Direction to the derivative to to the
derivative with respect to.
Inters app.
OK.
So now you may be wondering what is LR is
what this LR mean this LR means learning
rate OK .1.
The reason we said this learning rate .
1 you can say is smaller is.
This derivative and those two values are
actually called gradient.
Is a gradient, is a one of a gradients,
another one of the gradient.
And the gradient. Oh gosh, I just.
Right.
So then we we can definitely add this
gradient back,
but we'd better just go step by step.
That's why I have this.
I have a learning rate in here.
What we're going to do is let's just copy
paste everything here.
And we're gonna adjust.
So now I'm going to.
App update the slow by intercept by doing
this.
This equals this value.
Minus.
The gradient for slope multiply my
learning rate.
And this one going to be my previous
intercept minus.
My gradient for intercept multiply my
learning rate.
OK.
I have those values and then I gonna
recalculate the Y hat where Y hat is my .
1. Multiply this slope the new slope.
Plus my new intercept.
And my era is going to be my old.
Y minus my new Y hat.
And L square is the same.
So let me just refresh this table.
I'm sorry.
Boom, I reduced MSE from 92 to 41.
So now let's do this.
Let's still calculate.
My my gradient by adding .
5 here and keep the intercept the same as
before so that I will quickly calculate
the Y hat this.
This plus this.
I'll get nurse.
OK, my era this minus, yes.
OK.
I got my God.
My MSE is smaller and this one I keep.
I I will keep the slope the same.
I'll add a .5 to this intercept.
OK, I let me recalculate the Y hat.
I recall that error.
Cool off this.
OK.
I have another new gradient OK,
but as you can see all the mses are
getting smaller.
We are getting there and then we have a
new.
Set of gradients and as you can see the
gradients is actually getting a smaller
in terms of absolute value.
Let me just do one more step and then
we'll stop.
So let me just copy.
And and start and paste it here.
So this value will be this M2 minus this
number multiplied this. OK perfect.
This Y hat will be.
A.
T&U.
It's error will be C.
As you can see, if I just ignore this,
the those gradient steps, right?
So we are moving from 92 initial guess 00
and 92 MSE to 18.
So this stops.
And if I may say.
Sure. Is that intrinsic?
So this is step one or step 0.
This is step one.
This step too.
And you keep going.
You have Step 3.
Step 4.
You will have this MSE getting smaller
and smaller.
This gradient is going to stop.
Those stepwise is getting smaller and
smaller.
You eventually have those slow and
intersect close to this seven and three.
In the end,
this is the process of gradient.
Descent.
OK, in, in, in computer science,
we just have all those Staffs coded in
Python so that you can just directly call.
So this is the the Excel demonstration of
gradient descent.
Any questions?
OK, if you don't have any questions,
I hope you have.
Enjoy the week.
I'll let you guys know the homework and
then we'll meet next week.
Thank you.
Yeah. Thank you, Eric.
Yep.
Thanks professor.
Thank you.
Have a good one.
Yep.